Twilight Princess Writeup

The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess also takes place in the timeline that stems from the defeat of Link in Ocarina of time. This story begins in Ordon Village, whence a young Link works as a ranch hand. After Bulblins kidnap the town's children, Link attempts to track them but encounters a barrier of Twilight. A Shadow Beast pulls Link through the barrier and turns him into a wolf. Link is then freed by Midna, a Twilight creature who offers her assistance in return for Link's devotion. She leads Link to Princess Zelda, who reveals that the King of the Twili, Zant, invaded Hyrule Castle and left Zelda no choice but to surrender. She also reveals that the entire kingdom has been consumed by Twilight, and the only way to resolve this is to recover the light stolen from the Twilight-consumed regions. During this journey, Link returns to Ordon Village, and restore the light of the once captured children. Zant then appears, exposes Midna to a lethal amount of light from the spirit Lanaryu, and turns Link back into a wolf before vanishing. Link brings the wounded Midna to Zelda, who explains that the Master Sword contains the power needed to remove Zant's curse. She then sacrifices herself to save Midna, who is greatly moved by this act. Link acquires the Master Sword, and begins to search for the Mirror of Twilight, in attempts to travel back to Hyrule. After discovering that the Mirror is broken, Sages explain that it was once used to banish Ganon. Link and Midna set out to retrieve the missing pieces of the Mirror, and upon returning, Link learns that Midna is the true ruler of the Twili, and was usurped by Zant. Zant reveals his plot, including his agreement with Ganon, and begins a battle with Link. After Zant's defeat, Midna learns that Ganon must also be defeated in order for her to return to her natural form. The duo returns to Hyrule Castle, where Ganon is waiting alongside a lifeless Zelda above him. A battle ensues, and after Link defeats Ganon, Midna uses the power given to her by Zelda to revive Zelda herself. However, Ganon also revives, and chases Link out of a crumbling Hyrule castle on horseback. Link ends this second battle by sinking the Master Sword into Ganon's chest, thus returning Midna to her natural form, and relinquishing all Twilight from Hyrule.