Ocarina Write up




LoZ: Ocarina of Time is probably the most significant game of the project. In the entire Zelda timeline, it’s the game that splits the series timeline into 3 separate paths depending on how the final events of Ocarina play out. The plot summarized is the evil wizard, Ganondorf’s rise to power and Link and Princess Zelda’s efforts to stop him. Zelda tells Link of a dream she had: dark clouds over Hyrule, and she believes Ganondorf will inevitably be the cause of this. Link then uses his Ocarina to time travel between multiple points in time.. When he pulls the Master Sword from the Temple of Time, he then falls asleep for 7 years in the Sacred Realm because he is not old enough to use the sword. When he awakes as an adult, he has free will to time travel as he pleases. He is then told to find the six other sage medallions and use the power to defeat Ganondorf. With the help of a mysterious figure named Sheik, they return to the Temple of Time once more. Upon reaching the Temple, it is revealed that Sheik is actually Zelda, and Ganondorf kidnaps her then retreats to his castle. Link gives chase, and finally reaches Ganondorf for a final showdown. He uses the power of the Master Sword and the Light Arrows to defeat his true form, Ganon. Zelda then returns Link back in time to relive his childhood. This is where the timeline splits, If Ganon is defeated, the ladder occurs and that leads us to the events of Twilight Princess. If Link is defeated, Ganon is sealed in a last ditch effort by Zelda and the six sages in the sacred realm leading to the events of A Link to the Past. The other ending Link is still sent back in time, however this time there is no hero to warn about the future, and Ganondorf is successful in his quest for power. However, the King entrusts the fate of Hyrule to the gods and they proceed to flood the world sinking Ganon and all his creations to the bottom of the sea. This leads to Wind Waker. 


A question when taking Ocarina into this project was would it have the most characters? I wondered because while it is the oldest out of the three, it has so much story and dialogue that set the standard for the future titles. I wasn't surprised to find it had the most out of the three in characters. In fact, it has the most of anything out of the three in any category. 

Another question was how lengthy the process was going to be for all three of the games. While the documents themselves were structurally sound, they were not similar in their structure. It made regexing each one very time consuming. Originally we had planned to get them all from one website, we ended up scratching that as some were not able to be regexed in a practical way. Although it took a while, they ended up being very good. 

The third was how were we to structure the choices, and dialogue boxes for things like items and Navi’s Tattle. These are somewhat optional in game, and don't have a specific space within the script. Luckily whoever designed the script put a special secretion for these specific speech boxes. It relieved much stress, and made the process easier. 
